CS 348K HW1 Part2 Writeup

For the part2, we build 2 parts for the image pipeline: local tone mapping and
burst mode alignment for denoising. The resulting images perform better than
the reference image.

Local tone mapping:
We follow the rubric in the handout, first convert the RGB image generated in
part 1 to YUV to extract the grayscale. Then we boost the Y channel by 
multiplying some factor (x1.3) to create a brighter image (more exposure).
We then use the contrast, saturation, well-exposedness weight discussed in the
exposure fusion paper to compute the weight for each pixel in 2 images.
We then compute the Gaussian and Laplacian pyramid for the images and the
weight, blending the Laplacian pyramids using the weights, and plug the fused
grayscale as Y channel back to the YUV image. The resulting image has more
details in both bright and dark region of the images.

Burst mode alignment:
I first downsample the RAW bayer images from the burst to grayscale, compute
the GP for each of the images. For the alignment, I use tile size 16, stride 8,
and search radius 8 at all depth, and use gaussian kernel to upsample the 
offset to the next layer. After we get the top layer offset, we apply it on the
Bayer raw frame to get the merged result. I use the L1 distance as the metric,
and use the raised cosine window to smooth the merging process. I cap the
distance of a tile at 3.0f, and linearly scale the distance as weight from
0.5 to 3.0 (anything below 0.5 has weight 1.0, and anything beyond 3.0 has
weight 0).

Runtime:
~42 seconds for the taxi.bin (aligning and merging take 28 seconds)
~91 seconds for the church.bin (aligning and merging take 66 seconds)
~446 seconds for the path.bin (aligning and merging take 389 seconds)

One thing we can do to boost the pipeline is to decrease the search radius in
the aligning process along the depth of the GP. It can boost the runtime by 2x,
while sacrificing some quality of the image. I decide to keep the longer one
since we are graded on the quality, not runtime.

Comparation to the reference output:
Pros: 
The output image has no weird blur at the edge of the image;
The edges are smoother than the reference output (for human and object);
The noise is significantly less than the reference.

Cons: 
The saturation (hue) is better for the reference image;
Runtime for the large image is too long.